All right we are back.
We've been talking about editing in the last few lectures and even about outsourcing this task.
For those of you who want to go that route.
But if you are doing the editing on your own First I applaud your dedication.
It's really not that bad though.
What can be a little tough though is figuring out a style for the editing work you're doing.
I always look for inspiration from others to see what works what I like what I don't like and what I
can share with you guys.
And this is one of those examples right now.
There are lots out there.
But for your purposes and especially the marketing video type projects you'll be producing.
I have to mention the work of probably heard of them.
Casey Neistat this will be the first example of editing styles that were going to break down and actually
kind of look at now there are a lot of self-proclaimed YouTube stars out there but Casey knows that
is actually a man is probably the most qualified to claim that Casey is a New York based filmmaker has
gained a lot of attention for the videos he's made over the past two years as part of his v log.
The log is just a dumb word that means video blog.
Now most of his videos follow his daily life in New York but some of his most popular videos were Casey's
attempt to take on brands like Apple over a defective iPod batteries or protecting bicyclists from dumb
laws in New York City.
Now these days he directs commercials for big brands like Nike Google Samsung and so on and so on.
He also gets pretty massive endorsement deals just for opening things up in a box on his YouTube channel.
Now part of kisi success comes from his unique filmmaking style a kind of frantic stream of consciousness
guerrilla way of filmmaking.
A lot of the shots are handheld like holding the camera in the palm of his hand and like shooting it
downward at him.
But it's really his editing style.
I want to talk about here in this lecture and it's really what I think is unique none of the tactics
he uses in his videos that I want to highlight here.
Now a lot of people might say that these techniques are technically wrong or go against classic filmmaking
best practices but really they're just stylistic choices with the nature of YouTube and the evolution
of video.
I think they're really effective.
So first Casey uses big bold titles when Casey uses titles he fills up the entire screen.
Well almost from one side of the frame to the other it's bold to the point of being obnoxious.
But he does a few other things.
He uses a basic fault with no effects at it.
No drop shadows or effects to separate the text from the video image just plain old text and the biggest
size possible in the past.
Filmmakers might position titles in a strategic spot like offer the side or near the bottom and they
would definitely make them much much smaller.
So whereas many others would think let's not overpower the image with these words on the screen.
Casey instead uses titles to grab attention and set the stage for what's next.
You also notice that with his introductions he often uses time lapses with that text superimposed on
top of it.
You'll notice that timelapse is a very common thing that he puts into his shots.
Now by the way Casey sometimes uses homemade handwritten titles they're different and fun and keep the
viewer within the scene they're watching.
So when you want to do titles consider these different ways to do them.
Templates are convenient but they usually stick to straight for best practice type styles so you may
not find the Caseys tile in there.
Doesn't necessarily mean you couldn't try though if you guys watched my running a web development business
course.
I actually used a very similar introduction style with the big text and I used blurred backgrounds instead
of timelapse.
But that was the inspiration.
Now the next Casey ism is the use of fast pacing now pacing or First the speed at which the story is
told.
Casinos as interesting as his videos are people really aren't gonna stick around for an hour to see
what happens.
So in the span of five to ten minutes he'll tell his story.
Keep things moving and get to his point or conclusion in a very timely fashion.
Now you may discover that what you wrote in your script reads really well but when you're sitting there
watching a video version you're bored or you already know where it's going so quick in the pace.
Instead of using someone's words to tell a story it showed at the same time combine multiple images
with dialogue.
You get to use a split screen show multiple items or parts of a process.
No another technique used to quicken the pace is to use time lapse video.
It was kind of mentioned before but time does show the passage of time letting you know forward progress
is being made and they look pretty cool.
They're not so hard to make but you could also just check out again I stock photo or whatever although
there's no way in hell he would use stock videos for his time lapses.
That's part of what's cool about it is he actually uses his own stuff and you can tell if he went outside
our camera did it twice in a day and that's what he used for his daily villagey.
Also in his situation he does time lapses but then he doesn't do voiceover narration.
I did this and I did this and he did this.
He just has music playing in the background of every single episode and then he increases the volume
during the time lapses
OK the next Casey editing technique would probably make editing instructors at film schools everywhere
roll over in their graves if they were dead of course Casey uses mini jump cuts in his videos.
Now first question what exactly is a jump cut.
Well a jump cut is an edit and a video where you can see a segment of video is missing like here is
an example about this helmet.
I think I showed you before that a stop light from the front of the helmet.
That way people know to get the hell out of my way.
I also saw the flashlight in the back of the helmet so cars coming up from behind know that it's me.
But I just yesterday installed this here emergency whistle.
The velcro with a rope on the side of the helmet.
So now when I ride I just keep this little bastard right here I'm out like now we are cross again.
That is what I'm talking about.
Is this something you would almost never see in a professional movie or TV show.
These are videos that are expected to be smooth and people will go out of their way to make sure that
any time they go from saying something to saying something that there is no actual change in between.
They try to make it as smooth as possible and that's why so many people use multiple cameras because
they really don't want to put a jump cut.
Now videos are supposed to be smooth and in traditional sense jump cuts are actually seen as many by
as mistakes but to avoid jump cuts while you kind of have to go really out of your way to fix it.
So Casey you just shoot with one camera and he doesn't have a huge crew full of people to help him.
So there's no additional video coverage to help him at it.
However Casey doesn't want to make seamlessly Polish videos he wants to tell stories he wants to communicate
a thought or an idea.
And to him that's more important than making an ad it looks seamless.
Sometimes you don't even finish a sentence before cutting.
If you already know basically what he's going to say he'll just cut and move things along.
So Casey embraces these jump cuts as a way speed up the pace of his videos.
Now you'll notice in my videos when we transition we use a little bit of a fade.
I'm switching from paragraph to paragraph.
I'm not going to just and then move to the next thing.
We have a little bit of a Polish to it and that's just generally something that has more to do with
educational content.
However you will notice this just on YouTube it is very popular on YouTube to not put any transition
and to just cut your words together as close as possible.
Do you ever watch the villagey brothers again we are friends crash course they do that very similarly
they'll cut these words together really really quickly there's no pauses in between their sentences
happening I think is making his triumphant temporary return to our brothers.
Hello.
You're so bad.
Paternity leave.
Well that does is it forces you to pay attention.
It forces you to listen to the actual words so you don't miss what's going on.
That extra work you have to do is really what makes you engage with it a little bit more so Polish be
damned if it's stylish and it keeps people engaged.
Well that explains why so many people on YouTube use this style.
So you might think How do I incorporate this technique in a video that are supposed to be professional
and seamless and perfect jump cuts don't necessarily represent mistakes.
Clearly if you leave the jump cut in a video you're doing it on purpose.
It's really more about attitude using jump cuts means you want to show you have a different style you're
not conservative you're not bound by the rules.
It sounds like you and your brand or your business maybe you'll use more jump cuts and not worry about
smooth and seamless editing.
That's entirely up to you.
I honestly suggest testing it out and see how people respond.
Now related to jump cuts Casey also uses quick montages in his videos with a lot of uncommon shots.
Many people have seen montages so they know when they're watching one and it'll either show the passage
of time or the progression of a project.
Building something working out.
Rummaging around his office etc..
Now Casey's montages are cut very quickly making the montages faster than normal.
Maybe even a bit frantic a bit manic.
Also includes mistakes or shots you wouldn't normally include like a camera getting bumped or another
jump cut.
Or saying the wrong thing screwing up a word etc..
What it does is it adds a little bit of realism to the videos.
And if you're not expecting that to happen and it happens they show it to you and they immediately quit.
Cut to something else.
Well that's actually something that keeps your attention.
And this last point I think is an underlying current of a lot of Casey's video's realism.
His videos are edited to show real life and real people saying and doing real things.
Not like the real world.
You know what I mean.
Casey doesn't use a lot of effects in his videos other than the time lapse shots just superimposed text.
Some filmmakers try to create videos that magically look seamless and refined through editing his editing
style however embraces a lot of what other people actually edit out the mistakes.
The funny parts the weird stuff the everyday things that happen that are worth noticing.
Ultimately editing is about making choices you choose which pieces you keep and which ones you remove
what you keep and your video will say a lot about who you are.
So how or why would you use this type of editing software your own marketing videos.
If you're interested in capturing and sharing some of that realism in your business well this is a style
you could use Casey's video always have a point or a story to tell.
But it's how he shows and tells that story that captures your attention.
What stories could you tell in his handheld quick cuts.
Manic constantly full of time lapses and little bits of realism thrown in there type style.
Maybe you want to show how your product is made.
Or take a trip through your office.
These ideas aren't necessarily new ones but the way you shoot and edit your videos could be that newness
could actually result in a larger than usual response from your audience.
Now this style isn't best for everything kind of obvious.
If you're unpacking a lot of information in a walkthrough for instance that frantic cut cut cut style
might actually be kind of hard to follow but a two to three minute explainer video might give you a
chance to experiment.
All right so there you go.
That's the Casey Neistat style of editing broken down and analyzed.
Now watch this channel on YouTube and you'll see what we're talking about here.
I generally say look at the way he does it.
It's very grungy it's very guerrilla.
It's very.
Just get things done.
If you are making a video where you're trying to project a brand or a life style image or something
a little more creative or behind the scenes definitely take a look at how he shoots things and these
are things you can easily copy jump cuts are really easy.
You have a sense and you have a sense and a period in between.
You're not saying anything well cut out that period and put those two sentences as close together as
possible.
Do not use a transition putting a time lapse Well that's just you just have to plan for where in the
story or where in the script it's going to go.
Montage is really the same thing.
And then if you want to put in realism and bloopers and defects and things like that well you really
just want to keep the camera rolling as much as possible.
And then before you do your rough cut scrubs through the video and look for opportunities where something
different might have happened somewhere or someone said something weird or people start laughing because
you went off script or just anything you dropped something you'll notice this when you scrub through
and just quickly scan through your video files.
Ok guys I'll see you in the next lecture.
Well we'll talk about another editing style.
See you then.